doc/admin: How to rebuild corrupt Postgres indexes after upgrading to 3.30 or 3.30.1 (#23353)
sourcegraph/sourcegraph: doc/admin/how-to/rebuild-corrupt-postgres-indexes.md

# How to rebuild corrupt Postgres indexes after upgrading to 3.30 or 3.30.1

## Background

The 3.30 release introduced a `pgsql` and `codeinteldb` base image change from debian to alpine which changed the default OS locale.
This caused corruption in indexes that have collatable key columns (e.g. any index with a `text` column). Read more about this here: https://postgresql.verite.pro/blog/2018/08/27/glibc-upgrade.html

> After we found the root-cause of the [issues many customers were seeing](https://github.com/sourcegraph/sourcegraph/issues/23288), we cut [a patch release](https://github.com/sourcegraph/sourcegraph/blob/main/CHANGELOG.md#3303) that reverted the images to be based on debian, buying us time to change the alpine based version of the images to [reindex affected indexes on startup, before accepting new connections](https://github.com/sourcegraph/sourcegraph/issues/23310).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After we found the root-cause of the [issues many customers were seeing](https://github.com/sourcegraph/sourcegraph/issues/23288), we cut [a patch release](../../../CHANGELOG.md#3-30-3) that reverted the images to be based on debian, buying us time to change the alpine based version of the images to [reindex affected indexes on startup, before accepting new connections](https://github.com/sourcegraph/sourcegraph/issues/23310).
```

```

Follow these steps:

```sql
-- This query lists all indexes in the database, including catalogue indexes,
-- that have key columns of collatable types. In other words, it lists all indexes
-- that need to be rebuilt. You don't need to run this query since we have done that
-- for you, with the output below.
select
    distinct('reindex (verbose) index ' || i.relname || ';') as stmt
from
    pg_class t,
    pg_class i,
    pg_index ix,
    pg_attribute a
where
    t.oid = ix.indrelid
    and i.oid = ix.indexrelid
    and a.attrelid = t.oid
    and a.attnum = ANY(ix.indkey)
    and t.relkind = 'r'
    and ix.indcollation != oidvectorin(repeat('0 ', ix.indnkeyatts)::cstring)
order by stmt;

-- This is the output of the above query for the sourcegraph db.
-- We execute each of these sequentially until the first failure, most likely
-- due to duplicates, at which point we must delete those duplicates before
-- trying again. You can find an example duplicate deletion query at the
-- bottom of this file. After deleting those duplicates, just resume the index
-- rebuilding from where we left off, commenting out or deleting the previouse
-- reindex statements.

> reindex (verbose) index batch_changes_site_credentials_unique;

Reviewer: I think these can be split into separate code blocks if you can just run the stuff below 👍

reindex (verbose) index security_event_logs_anonymous_user_id;
reindex (verbose) index security_event_logs_name;
reindex (verbose) index security_event_logs_source;
reindex (verbose) index user_credentials_domain_user_id_external_service_type_exter_key;
reindex (verbose) index user_emails_no_duplicates_per_user;
reindex (verbose) index user_emails_unique_verified_email;
reindex (verbose) index user_external_accounts_account;
reindex (verbose) index user_pending_permissions_service_perm_object_unique;
reindex (verbose) index user_permissions_perm_object_unique;
reindex (verbose) index users_billing_customer_id;
reindex (verbose) index users_username;
reindex (verbose) index versions_pkey;

-- Example of a duplicate deletion query for the repo table that needs
-- to be adapated to the specific table we need to remove duplicates in.
--
-- We must disable index scans before deleting so that we avoid
-- using the corrupt indexes to find the rows to delete. The database then
-- does a sequential scan, which is what we want in order to accomplish that.

begin;

set enable_indexscan = 'off';
set enable_bitmapscan = 'off';

> delete from repo t1

Reviewer 2: when @ggilmore and I ran this query against a managed instance yesterday, we got some constraint errors because the repo was referenced somewhere else.

This query from the slack channel worked, though:

```
delete from repo t1
using repo t2
where t1.id > t2.id
and t1.external_service_type = t2.external_service_type
and t1.external_service_id = t2.external_service_id
and t1.external_id = t2.external_id; 
​```
Is the `ctid` ordering the wrong way around or did we do something wrong yesterday? 🤔
